Readme (#1)
juanmc2005/ContinualNLU: README.md

# Cross-lingual Transfer in Natural Language Understanding
Companion repository for the paper "A Study of Cross-lingual Transfer in Continual Natural Language Understanding".

This project contains all the scripts and information needed to reproduce the experiments presented in the paper.

## Installation

1) Create `conda` environment:

```shell
conda create -n acnlu python==3.8
conda activate acnlu
```

2) Install PyTorch (>= 1.7.1) following the instructions of the [docs](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/#start-locally)

3) Install dependencies:
```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Requirements

### Configuration file

> Each experiment needs a configuration file to be run. This file is a yaml file and includes paths and experiment 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each experiment needs a YAML configuration file including various paths and hyper-parameters. 
```

> parameters including the model hyperparameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

`example_config.yml` is an example of a configuration file.

### Dataset

To run the experiment you need to download the MultiATIS++ dataset.
Information about the dataset and how to download it can be found on this [github page](https://github.com/amazon-research/multiatis).

> After downloading the dataset, the path to the directory containing the train, dev, test splits of each languages (e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After downloading the dataset, the path to the directory containing the train, dev, test splits of each language (e.g.
```

> `train_EN.tsv`) has to be indicated in the configuration file, as presented bellow: (excerpt from the config file)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`train_EN.tsv`) has to be indicated in the configuration file:
```

```yaml
dataset:
  # Path to TSV files for train, dev and test
  path: '/path/to/tsv/files'
```

> ### Offline mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Offline mode (no internet connection)
```

> If you try to run an experiment in **offline mode**, it will fail when trying to load the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you try to run an experiment in **offline mode**, it will fail when trying to download the 
```

configured BERT, the associated tokenizer and the seqeval script.
To avoid this, do the following:
1. Pre-download the chosen model ('bert-base-multilingual-cased' is the one used in the paper) and the associated tokenizer (needs an internet connexion):
```python
from pathlib import Path
from utils import download_model

# Download and save locally both the model and the tokenizer from huggingface.co
download_model(save_dir=Path('/path/to/model/directory'), name='bert-base-multilingual-cased')
```

> 2. Get and save locally seqeval.py from https://github.com/huggingface/datasets/blob/master/metrics/seqeval/seqeval.py 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Get [seqeval.py](https://github.com/huggingface/datasets/blob/master/metrics/seqeval/seqeval.py) and save it locally 
```

> 3. Modify `config.yml` with the paths of the dowloaded BERT checkpoint and `seqeval.py`: (excerpt from the config file)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Modify `config.yml` with the paths to the dowloaded BERT model and `seqeval.py`:
```

```yaml
model:
  name_or_path: '/path/to/model/directory'

seqeval_path: '/path/to/seqeval.py'
```

## Run the experiments

> For each experiment, first copy in a new directory `example_config.yml` and rename it `config.yml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run an experiment, first add your `config.yml`to a new directory.
```

> All experiments were run using 5 different random seeds, that are `0`, `100`, `200`, `300` and `400`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All experiments were run using seeds `0`, `100`, `200`, `300` and `400`.
```

The results were then averaged and the standard deviation was computed.

> To set the seed to use in an experiment, set the `train.seed` parameter in the config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the seed by modifying `train.seed` in the config file.
```

> Evaluation results are printed on the configured output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Evaluation results are written in the configured output directory.
```

For monolingual and multilingual experiments the results include multiple evaluation metrics per slot-type and averages 

> metrics like the micro averaged F1-score (reported in the paper). The report is also automatically saved in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metrics like the micro averaged F1-score (reported in the paper). The report is also automatically saved to 
```

> `<path_to_config.ymal>/logs/slot_filling_report_test_<LANG>.csv`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<path_to_config.yml>/logs/slot_filling_report_test_<LANG>.csv`.
```

> For continual experiments, the results consist in a LxL performance matrix P (L=sequence length) reporting the F1-score

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Continual experiment results are an LxL performance matrix (L=sequence length) reporting the F1-score
```

> of the model on each language after training on a language at each step of the training sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on each language after training on each language in the sequence in order.
```

> The performance matrix is also automatically saved in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The performance matrix is also automatically saved to
```

> `<path_to_config.ymal>/logs/Sequence/slot_performance_test.csv`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<path_to_config.yml>/logs/Sequence/slot_performance_test.csv`.
```

### Joint Transfer

Joint Transfer results can be obtained after running both monolingual and multilingual experiments.

> To train the model on one language only (monolingual), set the `train.languages` parameter in the config file as a list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To train the model on one language only (monolingual), set `train.languages` to a list
```

> with only one string denoting the language you chose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the language code.
```

> E.g. to train the model on the English data: (excerpt from the config file)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
E.g. to train the model on English:
```

```yaml
train:
    languages: ['EN']
```

> The model can also be trained at once on multiple languages mixed up together (multilingual). To train the model on a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The model can also be trained on multiple languages at once (multilingual). To train the model on a 
```

selection of languages, fill the list with the associated language codes.

Then for both experiments, run the following:
```shell script

> python train_idd.py --dir path/to/config.yml/directory

Reviewer: The script should be named `iid` instead of `idd`

```

### Continual experiments

> The model is trained on the sequence of languages specified in the config file (the order of the elements in the list 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The model is trained on the sequence of languages specified in the config file (describing
```

> describes the order in which the languages are learnt).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the order in which the languages are learnt).
```

Continual experiments were run on 3 different sequences beginning with the same language and 3 others ending with the same
language for each language of the dataset.

> The list of sequences used to report our results can be found in `sequences_backward.lst` and 

Reviewer: It should be `sequences_backward_transfer.lst`.
Same for forward transfer sequences.

`sequences_forward.lst`.

> To run a continual experiment run the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a continual experiment:
```

```shell script
python train_continual.py --dir path/to/config.yml/directory
```

> #### Continual Transfer

Reviewer: From here on we can replace with a table or something more visual to explain what sequences are used for which experiment
